Create a Tempo Bundle (#1)
canonical/tempo-bundle: README.md

- [Tempo Coordinator](https://charmhub.io/tempo-coordinator-k8s) ([source](https://github.com/canonical/tempo-coordinator-k8s-operator))
- [Tempo Worker](https://charmhub.io/tempo-worker-k8s) ([source](https://github.com/canonical/tempo-worker-k8s-operator))

> - [S3 Integrator](https://charmhub.io/s3-integrator) ([source](https://github.com/canonical/s3-integrator))

Reviewer: Might also be worth noting in the `README` that the bundle won't work without configuring s3-integrator to point at something s3-compatible, be it s3 credentials or another charm that does the s3 work like minio.

juju add-model tempo
```

> ### Scaling monolithic deployment

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we should keep calling this the 'monolithic mode', to avoid suggesting that we also have a non-scaling one.
Much like we internally remap `all` to `scaling-single-binary`.
Perhaps add a note that the official docs call it differently, but to us this is just "the monolithic mode"? Or will that be just confusing?
@simskij WDYT?

Author: IMO, I think it would be confusing. I think we clearly say that we only have 3 modes of operation and we just mention what is that mean in the official docs.

Reviewer 3: I think I'm with Michael on this one.

The bundle, by default, deploys Tempo in its [scaling monolithic mode](https://grafana.com/docs/tempo/latest/setup/deployment/#scaling-monolithic-mode), which runs all required roles within a single process. Scaling monolithic mode is the way to deploy Grafana Tempo with horizontal scale out by instantiating more than one `worker` process and is useful if you want to get started quickly or want to work with Grafana Tempo in a development environment.

```shell
# render bundle with "edge" charms
tox -e render-edge
juju deploy ./bundle.yaml --trust
```

> 

Reviewer 2: at line 62, please add a note that what makes this mode 'monolithic' is that the worker application is configured with `role=all`.

> - 1 `coordinator` unit (`tempo-coordinator-k8s` charm)

Reviewer 2: perhaps I would write the app names in this listing too, separate from their scale, so the user will know what to expect to see in `juju status`.
How about:

```
The bundle will deploy:

- a `tempo` application with 1 unit (`tempo-coordinator-k8s` charm)
- a `tempo-worker` application with 3 units (`tempo-worker-k8s` charm), configured with `role=all`
- an `s3-integrator` application with 1 unit (`s3-integrator` charm)
```

- 1 `s3-integrator` unit (`s3-integrator` charm)

[!NOTE]  
The default number of worker units is an odd number to prevent split-brain situations, and greater than 1 for the deployment to be HA.

### Minimal microservices deployment

> The bundle is able to deploy Tempo in its [microservices mode](https://grafana.com/docs/tempo/latest/setup/deployment/#microservices-mode), which runs each one of the required roles in distinct processes. Each required role is assigned to one worker unit to achieve the minimal deployment for the cluster to be considered consistent. Minimal microservices mode is the way to deploy Grafana Tempo in a distributed architecture without high availability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The bundle can also be rendered to deploy Tempo in its [microservices mode](https://grafana.com/docs/tempo/latest/setup/deployment/#microservices-mode), which runs each one of the required roles in distinct processes. Each required role is assigned to one worker unit to achieve the minimal deployment for the cluster to be considered consistent. Minimal microservices mode is the way to deploy Grafana Tempo in a distributed architecture without high availability.
```

> Add `--mode` to deploy `tempo-bundle` in `minimal-microservices` mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pass the `--mode=minimal-microservices` argument to render the bundle for this mode:
```

```shell
# render bundle with "edge" charms
tox -e render-edge -- --mode=minimal-microservices
juju deploy ./bundle.yaml --trust
```

> The bundle will deploy:

Reviewer 2: please rephrase this listing following the same format as suggested for the previous one (include app names). I'd call the worker nodes `tempo-<role>`, omitting the 'worker'

- 1 `tempo-worker-querier` unit (`tempo-worker-k8s` charm)
- 1 `tempo-worker-query-frontend` unit (`tempo-worker-k8s` charm)
- 1 `tempo-worker-ingester` unit (`tempo-worker-k8s` charm)
- 1 `tempo-worker-distributor` unit (`tempo-worker-k8s` charm)
- 1 `tempo-worker-compactor` unit (`tempo-worker-k8s` charm)
- 1 `tempo-worker-metrics-generator` unit (`tempo-worker-k8s` charm)
- 1 `coordinator` unit (`tempo-coordinator-k8s` charm)
- 1 `s3-integrator` unit (`s3-integrator` charm)

### Recommended microservices deployment

> The bundle is able to deploy Tempo in its [microservices mode](https://grafana.com/docs/tempo/latest/setup/deployment/#microservices-mode), which runs each one of the required roles in distinct processes. Each required role is assigned to an arbitrary number of worker units to achieve the recommended deployment for the cluster to be considered robust. Recommended microservices mode is the way to deploy Grafana Tempo in a distributed architecture while achieving high availability in a production environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, the bundle can be rendered to deploy the 'recommended' amount of nodes for its microservices mode. In this scenario, each worker node is scaled up to the recommended number of units. This is the recommended way to deploy a highly available Grafana Tempo for production environments.
```

Should we add a note/link explaining who is doing the recommendation? Is this according to some official grafana guide, helm chart, or is this our expert opinion?

Author: Its still a TODO item I guess to find out what does the recommended deployment look like

Author: I see grafana have their helm chart for tempo with these values https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts/blob/main/charts/tempo-distributed/values.yaml
Guessing we can have this as our initial recommendation at least until we have a counter argument.

> Add `--mode` to deploy `tempo-bundle` in `recommended-microservices` mode.

Reviewer 2: rephrase as above

```shell
# render bundle with "edge" charms
tox -e render-edge -- --mode=recommended-microservices

> juju deploy ./bundle.yaml --trust

Reviewer 2: juju add-model tempo-prod

```

<!-- TODO: find out what the actual recommended deployment is -->
The bundle will deploy:

> - 1 `tempo-worker-querier` unit (`tempo-worker-k8s` charm)

Reviewer 2: also reformat as above
